---
title: Ullage Compatible Optical Sensor for Monitoring Safety-Significant Malfunctions, Phase I
created: 2020-11-12T04:24:52.894023
modified: 2020-11-12T04:24:52.894030
state: active
type: dataset
tags: dataset
groups: dataset
csv_url: 
json_url: 
published: true
---
The tasks of this Phase I proposal are designed to establish the
feasibility of an optical sensor for real-time, in situ monitoring of
the ullage environment of an aircraft fuel tank.  This all-optical fuel
tank ullage sensor (FTUS) will be unaffected by fuel splashing and
sulfur deposits on the sensor.  By combining an innovative oxygen and
temperature sensor, this project will enable NASA to offer technologies
to monitor the performance of OBIGGS (on-board inert gas generating
system).  In commercial application, it is imperative that an on-board
sensor is in place to identify if OBIGGS, which is safety related, is
malfunctioning.  FTUS represents a platform technology, which can be
used across NASA enterprises, where sensitive monitoring of the ambient
environment is required.  By using single mode optical fiber in the
design, ISL will address size, weight, and cost concerns of the aircraft
industry.  Tasks are proposed to demonstrate the sensor?s ultrahigh
sensitivity and immunity to fuel splashes and deposits of sulfur
compounds.  To assure success, ISL has assembled a project team having a
cumulative 60 person-years of experience in the development of
opto-chemical sensors.
